Modify rule S1265: LaYC format (#2776)
SonarSource/rspec: rules/S1265/cfamily/rule.adoc

Reviewer: Your rewrite is already an improvement.
But the implementation is wrong (CPP-2429) for the same reason the description is lacking precision: there are many possible `operator new` and `operator delete`, and each should have the corresponding one.

To be fair, neither the C++ CG nor CERT articles describe what the corresponding operator is, and this is not trivial. C++ reference is a bit better in that area, but the wording is not easy to follow because the elements are on different pages. See https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/language/delete and https://en.cppreference.com/w/cpp/memory/new/operator_delete for example.

There are essentially two things I would improve in the description:
 * Why is it an issue to rely on the default new/delete when one of them is defined? You give a hint (the program will not do it correctly). Being more explicit would dissipate misunderstanding in this complex topic. E.g., if the impl of `new` uses `malloc`, the `free` must be used in `delete`; if `new` draw memory from a preallocated buffer, `delete` should not call `free`, ...
 * Which `delete` overload corresponds to a given `new` overload?

---

I wonder if we should put this on hold until the FPs are fixed (CPP-2429).
WDYT?

Author: If I understand correctly, the rule does not raise FP but has FN when the new operator and the delete operator it finds do not correspond. Or as soon as one new operator and one delete operator are defined.
I don't think this should prevent the rule from being improved. It would help the user to define the new or delete operator missing correctly.
I'll work on it (it seems so easy... 😅 )

Reviewer: Thanks, looks much better already! Let's leave the second point to CPP-2429.

== Why is this an issue?

The `operator new` allocates memory for objects, and the `operator delete` frees the memory allocated by the matching `operator new`. When a class needs to customize memory allocation, it can override the `operator new` to use a custom memory allocation strategy and override the `operator delete` accordingly.

> If the `operator delete` is not overridden alongside the `operator new`, the program will call its default implementation. And this latter may not be suitable for the custom memory allocation strategy used by the overridden `operator new`.

Reviewer: While grammatically correct, I found "this latter" hard to read for some reason.
A simple suggestion, but feel free to dismiss it.
```suggestion
If the `operator delete` is not overridden alongside the `operator new`, the program will call its default implementation and may not be suitable for the custom memory allocation strategy used by the overridden `operator new`.
```

Author: ```suggestion
If the `operator delete` is not overridden alongside the `operator new`, the program will call its default implementation, which may not be suitable for the custom memory allocation strategy used by the overridden `operator new`.
```

> For instance, if the `operator new` draws memory from a preallocated buffer instead of allocating memory, the `operator delete` should not call the `free` function to release the memory. On the contrary, if the `operator new` allocate memory with `malloc`, the `operator delete` must call `free`.

Reviewer: I think "on the contrary" does not 100% fit here. What about "reciprocally"?

```suggestion
For instance, if the `operator new` draws memory from a preallocated buffer instead of allocating memory, the `operator delete` should not call the `free` function to release the memory. Reciprocally, if the `operator new` allocate memory with `malloc`, the `operator delete` must call `free`.
```

On the other hand, if the `operator delete` is overridden without overriding the `operator new`, it is suspicious because it may not correctly release the memory allocated by the default `operator new`.

By defining the `operator delete` along with the `operator new`, the memory is deallocated in a way consistent with the custom allocation strategy used by the `operator new`.

=== What is the potential impact?

> Overriding both operators will ensure that your program does not consume more and more memory over time, eventually leading to a crash. 
> 
> Deallocating memory that was not allocated results in undefined behavior.

Reviewer: The first sentence is "positive" (this should be done), while the second is "negative" (don't do that). This makes it slightly hard to follow.

Given we are talking about the defect, I wonder if we should prefer the negative style.

Also, small nit in the second sentence: in a way, all memory is allocated in some way (heap, stack, buffer, ...). What matters is the two new/delete match.

I tried to make a suggestion to address these points.

```suggestion
Overriding only one of the two operators may result in your program consuming more and more memory over time, eventually leading to a crash. 

Deallocating memory that was not allocated with the corresponding strategy results in undefined behavior.
```

Author: Good point, thanks!

== How to fix it

Each override of the `operator new` should have a matching overridden `operator delete` and vice versa.

=== Code examples

Imagine a custom allocator `MyAllocator`:

[source,cpp,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
class MyAllocator {
public:
    void* allocate(size_t size) {
        void* p = malloc(size);

>         return p;

Reviewer: The operators new below are not standard compliant because they should throw on failure.

This should fix the issue:
```suggestion
        if (!p) {
            throw std::bad_alloc();
        }
        return p;
```

    }

    void deallocate(void* p) {
        free(p);
    }
};
----

==== Noncompliant code example

[source,cpp,diff-id=1,diff-type=noncompliant]
----
class MyClass {
public:
    // Noncompliant: there is no matching override of the delete operator
    void* operator new(size_t size) {
        return allocator.allocate(size);
    }

private:
    static MyAllocator allocator;
};

void f() {
    MyClass* obj = new MyClass();
    delete obj; // It will call the default implementation of the operator delete
    // and this latter will not call the MyAllocator::deallocate function to correctly release the memory

>     return 0;

Reviewer: Function is void.

```suggestion
```

}
----

==== Compliant solution

[source,cpp,diff-id=1,diff-type=compliant]
----
class MyClass {
public:
    void* operator new(size_t size) {
        return allocator.allocate(size);
    }

    void operator delete(void* p) {
        allocator.deallocate(p);
    }

private:
    static MyAllocator allocator;
};

void f() {
    MyClass* obj = new MyClass();
    delete obj; // It will call MyClass::delete to correctly deallocate the memory

>     return 0;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
